---
title: "Father's Day 2.0"
author: Andrew
type: blog
date: 2013-06-16T16:55:09+00:00
aliases:
  - /family/fathers-day-2-0/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 3423412049
categories:
  - Family
tags:
  - "Father's Day"
  - Parenting

---
How is it that the father of a 5.5 month old baby boy (me!) is claiming to celebrate &#8220;Father&#8217;s Day 2.0&#8221;??

My wife wrote a very compelling blog post last year around Father&#8217;s Day. You can find it [over at her blog, &#8220;Eve&#8217;s Daughter&#8221;][1].

I love the argument she presents &#8211; how we wholeheartedly believe that life begins at conception and that our baby boy is 5.5 months old since birth, but he has existed as a human being for well over a year now. She wrote,

> If we believe that life begins at conception&#8230;then why do we tell a mom that she isn&#8217;t really a mom until a baby is born?

Likewise, is a dad only a dad when his baby is born? Does not a baby exist prior to birth? If that&#8217;s what we hold to be true (which is what we&#8217;re saying when we say &#8220;life begins at conception&#8221;), then that baby must also have _parents_!

As I reflected on this today, I began to think of it like this:

If we agree with the assertion that Courtney and I only became parents on December 31, 2012 when Silas was born, this would mean one of two things:

1. Silas was not a person before he was born. However, we have already written that we do not hold this to be a true statement. Silas was a human being in the womb.

OR

2. Silas was an orphan before he was born.

A child without parents is by definition an orphan. And I assure you, my baby boy has never been without a mom and a dad who love and care for him.

So I am celebrating my second Father&#8217;s Day today because my baby boy had a daddy from the very start who loves him beyond what language can express.

 [1]: http://www.beautifullyunveiled.blogspot.com/2012/06/to-be-or-not-to-be.html?m=1